updated for structure and suggested use cases. (#20404)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/application_security/threats/threat-intelligence.md

## Overview

> Datadog provides built-in [threat intelligence][1] datasets for Application Security Management (ASM) and Cloud SIEM (Security Information and Event Management). This provides additional evidence to take action when security activity is observed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog provides built-in [threat intelligence][1] datasets for Application Security Management (ASM) and Cloud SIEM (Security Information and Event Management). This provides additional insights to take action when security activity is observed.
```

Datadog curates threat intelligence into a standardized list of categories and intents.  Intents include _benign_, _suspicious_, and _malicious_. Categories of threat intelligence include benign detections such as _corp\_vpn_ and malicious categories like _malware_. Upstream threat intelligence information is passed through for all threat intelligence sources, with limits based on threat intelligence payload size.

Datadog recommends the following methods for consuming threat intelligence:

> 1. Reducing detection rule thresholds for business logic threats such as credential stuffing. Users can clone this default rule _insert rule link_ to meet their needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Reducing detection rule thresholds for business logic threats such as credential stuffing. For example Users can clone [credential stuffing default rule](https://app.datadoghq.com/security/configuration/asm/rules/view/wnp-zlu-woa) and modify it to meet their needs.
```

2. Using threat intelligence as a indicator of reputation with security activity.

> Datadog recommends against the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog recommends _against_ the following:
```

- If a high fidelity threat intelligence source categorizes a request as being made by a known attacker, this request is surfaced in ASM *even in the absence of an actual attack*. This can serve as an early warning sign that a known attacker is looking at your services.
- If a request contains any attack, it is surfaced in ASM. Threat intelligence here can provide additional context when investigating traces.

If you use ASM, threat intelligence data is also available in APM traces. 
Datadog recommends against the following:
1. Blocking threat intelligence traces without corresponding security activity. IP addresses may have many hosts behind them. Detection of malware or a residential proxy means that the associated activity has been observed by a host behind that IP. It does not guarantee that the host running the malware or proxy is the same host communicating with your services.
2. Blocking on all threat intelligence categories, as this is inclusive of benign traffic from corporate VPNs and will block non-malicious traffic.

## Which sources are surfaced in ASM

Threat intelligence matches from any of the following sources are surfaced in ASM even in the absence of attacks:

> - minerstat

Reviewer 3: If we want to remove this, we can't merge the documentation until it's removed on the backend (I'm starting that process today, but it'll take until end of week)

Author: I think its okay to have it as an undocumented source for a few days.. It is low traffic and it was undocumented previously. I defer to your comfort level on that.

Reviewer 3: Compromise: ok with me to merge this once we've gotten the approval for the change from event platform (but before it is deployed, which takes a day and happens on Tuesdays/Thursdays)

> - abuse.ch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [abuse.ch](https://threatfox-api.abuse.ch)
```

> - FireHOL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [FireHOL](https://iplists.firehol.org/)
```

- abuse.ch
- FireHOL

> - spur (only the `malware` category)

Reviewer 3: Do we want to send all of spur to ASM? Cause if not, we should leave the disclaimer here.

Otherwise I foresee customers contacting support that there's a bug, cause a spur feed (with unsupported category) is not surfaced.

Author: Makes sense. Need to update it to malware and residential proxies.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/DataDog/logs-backend/pull/59572 Removing minerstat, and adding residential_proxy

Reviewer 3: @datamarmot We have to add `residential_proxy` separately. I tested in staging over the last 2 days, and it will add a lot of traffic (5x the existing feeds combined). I'd like to add some way to roll that out progressively, and i'll update the docs subsequently again.

> - Tor exit nodes

Reviewer 3: These are exact source names as they will appear in the spans, so imho we shouldn't change the capitalization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Tor Exit Nodes
```

Author: Spur is the proper noun representation which I think we should reflect.
Exit nodes is more grammatically correct. Its not a hill I'm willing to die on. Defer to you, but that is the reasoning for changing.

Reviewer 3: The search is case sensitive, which is why I'm pushing back on this. If users copy-paste the capitalized versions, they will not be able to use it in a query.

Compare these two searches (same time interval, only difference is the capitalization):
- [lowercase spur](https://app.datadoghq.com/security/appsec/traces?query=%40threat_intel.results.source.name%3Aspur%20&start=1698474264130&end=1698525206485&paused=true)
- [capitalized spur](https://app.datadoghq.com/security/appsec/traces?query=%40threat_intel.results.source.name%3ASpur%20&start=1698474264130&end=1698525206485&paused=true)
